#summary A proposal for more user friendly search results.

= Introduction =

Search results are currently (22 Mar 2011) returned as a flat list including the Filename, Dataset and Experiment.  If a large number of files match the search criteria this quickly becomes an unwieldy list to try and interpret.

Discussions with beamline scientists at the Australian Synchrotron have highlighted two use cases that should be supported:

  # Users searching for particular datafiles, knowing appropriate search criteria.
  # Users searching for datafiles from an experiment.  They know search criteria that will match the experiment, but won't necessarily match the actual datafiles they are looking for.


= Details =

A more useful format would be to return the list of matching Experiments.  This would be displayed in the same format as the current Data page, i.e.

{{{
Experiment Title
From [source], deposited [date], last modified [date]
[start date] - [end date]
[x] datasets, containing [x] files
}}}

Clicking on any experiment would take you to a page similar to the current view experiment page, i.e. it would contain the same tabs at the top, "Description", "Datasets".  The Description page would be the same as view experiment.

The Datasets page would be similar to the current view experiment page, but would have a toggle button that modified the display allowing the user to choose between:

  * Displaying only those datasets and datafiles that match the search criteria (first use case above)
  * Display all datasets and datafiles and highlighting those that match the search criteria, e.g. by displaying with a different background colour (highlighting method to be determined) (second use case above).