#summary Multiple parameter sets based on varying/repeating schema

= Introduction =

TARDIS implements a soft-schema capability to allow metadata specific to any research activity to be stored.

The basic requirements are:

  * Parameters may be attached to Experiments, Datasets or Datafiles.
  * Parameters are grouped together in to ParameterSets, defined by a Schema.
  * Any number of ParameterSets may be attached to an Experiment, Dataset or Datafile.
  * ParameterSets may be attached to more than one Dataset or Datafile.
    * Note that TARDIS has a general principle that Experiments are self-contained, so it is not possible to attach a ParameterSet to more than one Experiment, or to Datasets or Datafiles from multiple Experiments.
  * Schema may be defined by an System Administrator, and any number of schema may be created.

Examples of the types of schema that may be defined include:

  * Additional Experiment Metadata
    * Experiment Number
    * Beamline
  * Instrument Settings
  * Equipment Identification (e.g. which detector was used)
    * Name
    * URL (link to additional information, e.g. equipment register)
    * Serial Number
  * Sample
    * Name
    * Preparation
    * Description

Multiple schema's may be attached to an entry (Experiment, Dataset, Datafile), e.g. Equipment and Instrument Settings.

Multiple pieces of Equipment may be used simultaneously, e.g. a detector and light, thus the need for multiple ParameterSets of the one schema to be attached to an entry.

Samples and Equipment may be common to multiple entries, thus the need for a ParameterSet to be attached to more than one Dataset or Datafile.

== Parameter Inheritance ==

Some parameter types, such as Sample, will be considered to be inherited, e.g. to find the sample associated with a particular Datafile:

  * Look for the Sample ParameterSet attached to the Datafile.  If not found...
  * Look for the Sample ParameterSet attached to the containing Dataset.  If not found...
  * Look for the Sample ParameterSet attached to the containing Experiment.

As TARDIS currently doesn't provide any analytical capabilities, but only metadata display and download there is no implementation of inheritance.  This may be added at a future date.


----
= Possible Futures =

== Split Parameter values by Type ==

Parameter values are currently stored in tables with string_value and numerical_value columns.  Binary data is currently base64 encoded and stored as a string.

It may be more efficient to split the Parameter table out in to three or more tables based on the data type being stored, e.g.:

  * String
  * Numerical
  * Binary
  * Date?


== Nested ParameterSets ==

The latest instance of TARDIS (currently only the synchrotron codebase) allows one to attach multiple (infinite) xml parameter sets to a single datafile or dataset. For example, an IR datafile can consist of a set of blocks, each with their own parameters and a parent parameter set applicable to all blocks.

  * Datafile
    * Parameter Set (header)
      * Parameter Set (block 1)
      * Parameter Set (block 2)
      * Parameter Set (block 3)
      * Parameter Set (block 4)

In this example, the new changes to TARDIS would allow 5 parameter sets to be associated under a data file, 1 of them conforming to 1 schema, and 4 based on another schema.


= History =

Initially, all TARDIS sites allowed datasets and datafiles to have a single set of parameters conforming to a single schema. For example, for a datafile:

Metadata Schema Namespace URL: http://www.tardis.edu.au/schemas/trdDatafile/1

Parameter set (in xml)
{{{
				<trd:datafile xmlns:trd="http://www.tardis.edu.au/schemas/trdDatafile/1">
					<trd:exposureTime>3.000000</trd:exposureTime>
					<trd:detectorSN>457</trd:detectorSN>
					<trd:xrayWavelength>0.953626</trd:xrayWavelength>
					<trd:directBeamXPos>105.000000</trd:directBeamXPos>
					<trd:directBeamYPos>105.000000</trd:directBeamYPos>
					<trd:detectorDistance>199.995468</trd:detectorDistance>
					<trd:imageSizeX>2048</trd:imageSizeX>
					<trd:imageSizeY>2048</trd:imageSizeY>
					<trd:pixelsizex>0.102400</trd:pixelsizex>
					<trd:pixelsizey>0.102400</trd:pixelsizey>
				</trd:datafile>
}}}

This was the extent of description available.

----
= References =

  * See the [http://groups.google.com/group/tardis-devel/browse_thread/thread/24ea25b28437b5f8 On Equipment Metadata (and Sample) discussion]